We'll continue our discussion of parallel streams
internals by focusing on splitting
combining and pooling
So
once again
we'll talk about what you can change
what you can't change in the context of splitting
combining and pulling
So that the splitting and combining and pulling mechanisms by default are invisible
If you if you don't do anything and you just program of Pella screen by saying Carol Stream is a stream
Good things happen without you having to be much concerned with how or why is good things happen and that's again intentional
It's by Design
Why
This is the case is that all Java Collections you get out of the box in the Java class library on the Java platform all come with predefined splitter
Raiders
that can create parallel streams
So that's great
You can see her again
split a writer and then here's parallel stream
which uses the splitter Raider method in conjunction with stream support
Stream and the true flag in the cape
You want to make a Pearl Street
Likewise Java also
predefined various collector
Factory methods in the collectors utility class
And so
we have various methods
you could do things like create lists
create sets
and so on
And these Factory methods
even though they create non concurrent collectors can work seamlessly with parallel streams
as we'll talk about here shortly
And of course
the common Fork
join pool is also provided
And in fact
it's
it's mandated to be used with Carol Streams in order to run the intermediate operations
on the chunks of data created by the Pearl splitter
Raiders
This is the one that doesn't give you as many customization options
You can customize the heck out of the first two and we'll talk a bit about how to customize these things
Although we'll talk in more detail later on
We get a little further along
You can customize split Raider by basically either directly implementing these
put her in her face or extending the abstract splitter abstract class and then filling in the appropriate hook methods advance
And as we mentioned before
that try Advanced method is used by the streams framework
The process elements
One of the time in Boston right now in Carol Streams talk about that when we talked about splitter Raiders for sequential streams and the try split method of course
is what's used to partition elements in a parallel stream and we'll talk a lot more about how try split Works in a couple of different lessons in particular
will talk about it
Generally in the partitioning lesson
and then we will go and show a very
very detailed and cool example
When we talked about the search with parallel splitter
raider-class which implements a super Advanced version of try split to take a work of Shakespeare and
Put it up into chunks
that can be searched in parallel
So that's going to give us really high-end high-performance fine-grained parallel processor
Likewise there's also the collector interface
We've talked before about non concurrent collectors and it has all these methods that you can use will also be talking about concurrent collectors here shortly and you get a chance to compare and contrast the performance characteristics
And then there's also this mechanism which we briefly talked about earlier to talk about in a lot more detail in this left
this section on Parallel streams as well as the section on the fork
join pool framework and this is basically used to add new threads to the color for joined pool
If operations Block
it's called interesting enough
They manage blocker interface and it's pretty cool
It's something that most people who program a job and don't know much about
In fact
there's a lot of misleading folklore out there that that you can't use parallel streams and you can't use the fork
Join pool for blocking operations
Nothing could be further from the truth
They work perfectly well for blocking operation things
like blocking Ayo
or blocking on synchronizers are blocking on blocking cues
And so it's just that you have to know how to use to manage block her properly
So I will help to dispel those
Mistaken
folklore myths and give you very solid grounding for how to use these features in practice